cmines is an implementation of the game of minesweeper for the Linux
console. The object of the game is to expose all the cells in a
rectangular grid which are not mined. When an unmined cell is exposed,
the number of neighboring cells which are mined is shown. By applying
this information, you attempt to proceed through the minefield.

INSTALLING

Since cmines is written specifically for Linux 2.x, no configure
script is needed. Use "make" to build the program. By default, "make
install" will install cmines under /usr/local/games. The target
directory can be changed by editing the definitions at the top of the
Makefile.

In order to build you will need to have installed the gpm library and
the include file gpm.h.

NOTE ON CHARACTER SETS

The terminfo entry for the Linux console typically handles the
"alternate" character set (i.e., the VT100 line-drawing characters) by
switching to the user-defined font map and using the nearest
equivalents from the native IBM PC set. (In fact, Linux has a separate
font map specifically for the VT100 line-drawing characters, but most
Linux installations' terminfo entries fail to take advantage of it.)

In particular, the VT100 bullet character is actually mapped to a
centered block, and not a centered dot as it appears on an actual
VT100. So, if cmines starts up with a field of blocks, and you think
(as I do) that it looks kind of ugly, try editing the Makefile to
uncomment the definition of USE_LATIN1 and rebuilding.

ALTERNATE VERSION

An alternate version of cmines is included, which uses ncurses and
gpm, and therefore does not require the Linux console. The mouse
handling is noticeably different, but otherwise it looks very much
like the normal version. (Note that you will need to have an ncurses
library that was built with gpm support in order to use the mouse.) To
build this version:

1. change the symbolic link userio.c to point to cursesio.c instead of
   linuxio.c;
2. uncomment the LOADLIBES line in the Makefile;
3. rebuild.

Brian Raiter <breadbox@muppetlabs.com>
September, 2000
